---
title: Stoic Week 2015 - Day 2
date: 2015-11-03 15:43 UTC
tags: stoic
---

# Or I can't control the amount of my free time.

At least during my workdays. And that's how my second day of Stoic Week looks like so far. It's almost five and I haven't done my midday meditation, yet.

Morning was good, thought. I listened to the morning meditation audio, read some bits from handbook and had a few thoughts about my coming day. Result: today should be ok, not that much stuff pissing me off during work days. Still, I can't agree that I have some things that I am supposed to do, because I am human being. This one is fine, thought: `Some things are within our power, while others are not`.

Count me as *phlegmatic*.

Too bad, I haven't finished the part (of handbook) about watching my thoughts, when I am angry and so on. I could used that.


### 7.30PM
I am reading after-lunch meditation. And again I kind go disagree, as they say I should be satisfied with being the best of myself. Well... maybe not disagree, but rather *don't care*. I would need to think about this to figure out my position.

**Isn't that what they want me to do?** (I am kinda doing that by reading.)

They write: I should focus on my ethical development. Honestly, I do not want to. I pretty much developed my moral and ethical rules when I was in puberty (and I am trying to follow them in my everyday life), so I guess I don't care now. I mean to develop it (I guess they are talking about some process, not sure what it should be).

Or do they mean I need to do it to became useful for society?   

### 7.48PM

So they are mentioning there are 2 types of events in our lives:

- what we can change, what's in our power  
- what we can not  

And that makes sense, right? So we should only care about what we can change, they say. Indeed. And accept the rest. Because worrying about what we can't change is where our unhappiness comes from. (So they have the same aim as Budhism, to get rid of unhappiness, by getting rid of it's source.)

The thing I like the most is what they say about planning things in our minds: **I will do such, if nothing prevents me**. That's what I am gonna take from today: when planning, always keep in mind that it might not work, as they are things our out your control.

### Later...

So I am going to listen to the evening meditation now. How's your stoic week going?
