---
title: Stoic Week 2015 - Day 1
date: 2015-11-02 19:52 UTC
tags: stoic
category: others
---

#Or ... I don't really know. 

So there are many ways how to live our life. And by ways I mean *philosphy* behind it. Or however you call it. You probably have one: religion, maybe regular law or some another set of (moral) rules. 

##Nah, I don't wanna talk about how you found yours. 
I wanna interest you to try something new. [Stoicism](http://modernstoicism.com/). The Stoic Week 2015 started today, but anyway, you might still join. 

##So day One

I hadn't had time to get me a notebook, so I'll be writing my diary here. 

Well, I was rather short on time, so not so much to report here: I read the handbook (no in great detail, rather fast reading) and I did my morning and midday meditations. I am about to do my evening one. 

First I have to say, that I do not agree with some basic stuff in there: I don't wanna be best possible person and useful for society. I don't seem to see any reason for it. But I admit I should've read the handbook more carefully, I might not be getting the point right.

I did them both in train, so it was rather reading the text, not so much thinking. I guess I could be thinking about how I could respond when people ask me for help in train (with luggage). That didn't come to my mind during morning meditation.

I will need to read guidebook again, they also have some audio files. Hopefully tomorrow morning, 12 hours of travel kind of killed me. 

##But 
But I really believe this excercise will be good for me. I'm about to find out how during this week. 



